Now the main difference between the old way of doing it and the new way is that we can create groups
to use the common tax server and you give your server a name you specify the IP address and key of the
tax server.
Previously you top those two commands but now you can figure the configuration as follows.
You also create groups which you can use to provide different services so you type Triple A group server.
In this case tack X and create a group which then maps back to the server previously created and now
when you specify your log in you point to this ACARS group here rather than pointing simply to attack
x.
This gives you more flexibility than what you had previously this rather is running Iowa's v version
15 dot 6 of Iowa's.
So it's a lot newer version and then the other riders noticed 15 dot 6 2 so all configure the strata
using the new method.
Which is the method that you need to know for the CCMA Exam committee Triple A new model.
Now before I enter that at the moment please note that there is no authentication to log in but what
I'll do now is enable Triple A New Model specify a backup use the name of David with a positive Cisco
note once again that
the console has no authentication configured on it and neither do the other lines such as the orcs and
v2 why lines tack X and the difference now is we have space server and now we can specify a name so
AC s or whatever name you want.
This gives us different options but as an example we can specify the IP version for address of the server
and the key that's going to be used.
So we've specified the address of the server and the key for the encryption to the server top exit.
And now we can use the command Triple A group server in our example it's going to be TAC X and we've
just given a name of AC as group various options are available but now we can specify server and the
name of the server which we created previously.
So this is referring back to the server that we created.
So these commands are sub commands as follows top exit.
And now we can type Triple A authentication log in we're going to use a default list to apply it to
all the lines.
And now we're going to specify a group which in our case is going to be a CSKA group and then we'll
use local as a backup mechanism.
Now the IP address on gigabit 00 is tendered wandered wandered to a 4 so back in ACARS.
We need to specify rather for tendered wandered 1 to a 4 click submit and apply.
Route has now been added.
So now on the console of the rota notice we have prompted for a username specify admin specify positive
Cisco
try that again admin Cisco
try the local username and password that works so there there's a problem
between the broader and the ACARS server and we'll just confirm our configuration so we've created a
group called ACARS group which is the same over here that's failing at the moment and we're getting
a local authentication the server that we're pointing to is ACARS
which we can see over here.
Password is Cisco for the communication to this ACARS server let's confirm that we did that right on
the ACM server.
Notice I forgot to put a key in Sol specify key of Cisco click submit and apply and now we'll try again.
So username is admin password is Cisco.
We are straight in so that works if we try.
DAVID In other words the local username and password that should fail.
And it does because that user is once again not configured in AC S. So on our reports failed attempts
we can see that David's authentication failed for this router ten dot one dot one or two for so let's
copy this configuration and I'll configure this iris v layer to switch with that configuration at the
moment the switch has no configuration so I'll create an IP address tendered wondered one to a five
on the switch can it paying the AC ACARS server yes it can.
So now we can paste that ISIS configuration into the switch and there you go.
Back on the ACARS server we need to add our switch so switch one tendered wondered one or two a five
positive Cisco submit that.
So there we go.
So now when we exit out of the switch and log back in we are prompted for our username and password
and admin.
Cisco succeeds where as a user of David and Cisco fails because that user name is not configured on
the AC a server.
So once again admin Cisco succeeds.
So this is the advantage we've got one two three four five devices using a centralized AC server.
If someone else joined the company we could create another user account such as Peter and click at
specified Peter's password click submit so we now have admin Peter and use a one configured on the switch.
Notice there is no user name
called Peter is only a user called David but if we log in with the new user of Peter they can log in
and we can do that on any of the devices.
So as an example on Roddick 3 we can log in without a problem.
We could even Telnet to say Radha to and log in as Peter by configuring AC Yes we don't have to configure
multiple databases of usernames and passwords.
We don't have to configure the V.T. y orcs and console ports on every individual device.
The authentication of all those ports will be handled through triple A and will leverage a central database.
In my example I'm using a Cisco ACM server that's integrated through G and S3 and is providing the authentication
for all of these devices centrally using a local database but ACARS could point to an active directory
database and use the usernames and passwords stored in windows for authentication to network devices.
As soon as you have many devices in your network it makes sense to use a radius or tax server such as
Cisco AC ACARS for your centralized authentication authorization and accounting.
In this example I was demonstrating X but you could also use radius as the protocol between the Rado
or switch and ACM server.